# CS340-Client-Server-Development
Projects for Full Stack development course involving MongoDB, Python, and Dash

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

While working on this project, creating the CRUD Python module made writing functions much easier to use over and over again. Creating modules in this way enables programmers to debug more efficiently and narrow down the root cause of an issue, if it arises. When a written module is tested and used several times by other programs, it will continue to improve and can become a stadardized solution for future programs. In this case, the crud_animal.py module was written early on in term, but was used for many subsequent assignments, which made writing new applications easier, as the project evolved from a python only application, to later involve Dash. This module was also the connecting point to the MongoDB database as it's sole function was to interact with it. It encompassed authentication and all the read/write functions needed for later development with the Dash web interface. Creatign modules in this way creates clear markers as to which part does what, futher enhancing maintainability, readbility and future adaptations.


**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

The way this course differed from prior courses is that it involved several layers of development, each needing specific attention. Beginning with the database layer, we had to learn how to navigate the MongoDB shell from a terminal and delve into the backend operations. We then used our Python knowledge to connect to the database by writing scripts and modules to interact with MongoDB. This made writing detailed queries easier to write and read. Python created an efficient middleware solution as we needed that layer to connect to the front-end of the application which required a client facing web interface to pull some data analytics. This last layer also involved using HTML commands to customize the look of the dashboard with the end-user in mind. As a computer scientist, developing such a full-stack application puts into perspeecitve all the stakeholders involved for the success of a project. A computer scientist much design a program that is maintainable and adaptable for the developers that also provides a client-side application that is attractive, efficient, and easy to use.


**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

Computer scientist bring solutions that connect people all around the world. They bring data to life, and offer real-time updates and solutions to an ever-changing digital climate. For Grazioso Salvare, this meant connecting them to an animal shelter located in the United States, by proving them full access to their data and stock of available animals that Grazioso can use for thier resuce operations in other places such as Europe, Africa, or Asia. Futhermore the data was organized and presented to them in a way that is catered to their need and easily adaptable for future growth.
